---
title: "December SQL Challenge"
date: 2020-01-11
tags: [SQL, Coding Challenge, Interview Prep]
header:
  image: "/images/sql_images/hackathon_header.png"
excerpt: "SQL, Coding Challenge, Interview Prep"
mathjax: "true"
---
## Introduction

After being on the job hunt for some time now, I've gone through my fair share of job postings on LinkedIn. When you search up terms like *Data Analyst* and *Data Scientist*, you'll often see similar skills needed for those types of roles. Probably the most prevalent skill I see is SQL. From my personal experience (and from others), SQL isn't really payed much attention in most data science undergrad programs. At my school, I vaguely remember *one* class spending at most *a week* on SQL. We learned a couple of aggregate functions and joins, but nothing too fancy.

When I graduated and started looking for work, I began to realize that my SQL level was nowhere near where it needed to be. As I started to hear back from companies, the company would usually send a preliminary assessment on a whole variety of things. Whenever I reached the SQL portion of the assessment, I would be Googling endlessly to unconsciously regurgitate something kind of related and pray that it would be good enough. Yeah... it wasn't good enough.

A couple of weeks into my job search, I made the decision to really grind out and learn SQL. I used a whole bunch of resources- Coursera, books, Youtube, etc.. It was a lot of talking to myself like a mad man, frustration, and moments of immense satisfaction. After a few months, I started to really get the hang of the fundamentals and the basic flow of the language. Though I made a *huge* leap from a few months prior, I still found myself struggling in interview type settings. Though my fundamental understanding was pretty good, I feel like I needed to now figure out how SQL was being asked in *actual interviews*.

That's where the *December SQL Challenge* was born. In the month of December, I challenged myself to do at least one SQL problem on LeetCode everyday. One convenience of LeetCode Premium (Yes, I paid the $35), is that you can see the frequency of certain problems in real interviews. Naturally, I sorted the problems by frequency (ASCENDING) and challenged myself to go down this list.
